George Steiner took this view in his celebrated book After Babel (1975). ‘Translation’, he declared, ‘is formally and pragmatically implicit in every act of communication … To understand is to decipher. To hear significance is to translate.’ In short: ‘human communication equals translation’. As evidence, he quotes passages from a series of literary works from across the last 500 years: Shakespeare’s Cymbeline, Jane Austen’s Sense and Sensibility, a sonnet by Dante Gabriel Rossetti, and Noël Coward’s Private Lives. 

Much interpretation the modern, English-speaking reader has to do in order to make sense of them; making sense of Shakespeare's words involves knowing how to translate them into a newer idiom: we translate ‘which’ into ‘who’, and so on.

Steiner’s examples end up showing something interestingly different from what he wants them to prove. Translation is not the same as communication. Instead, it is part of communication. We reach for translation when we encounter an obstruction to understanding, when we realize that the words that confront us are not entirely within our grasp. This matters because it reveals how fragmented the linguistic environment we inhabit actually is.

I could explain to myself that a ‘father’ is a male parent, or that ‘I’ is a pronoun one uses when speaking of oneself, but why would I? ‘I’ and ‘know’ and ‘where’ and ‘not’ and ‘when’ and ‘was’ and ‘call’ and ‘father’ are all familiar to me already. I don’t need to read them in translation.

The only way it would make sense to say that understanding these sorts of words is a form of ‘translation’ would be if there were some secret language in the mind that absolutely all words had to be translated into. On this view, what we call ‘meaning’ would itself be a kind of language, so that when you understand a word you translate it into ‘meaning’. But, if understanding is really a process of translating how would you then understand the ‘meaning’? You would have to translate it in its turn. And so on. And on. The structure is endlessly recursive. The reason why communication does not ‘equal translation’ is simple. You can understand by just knowing the words.

As we saw in the last section, the idea of ‘Translation Rigidly Conceived’ helps to maintain the view that there are separate languages: these are usually official languages supported by political States. If ‘translation’ is something that only happens between these languages, then it follows that people who have the same official language don’t need translation because they can all understand each other without it. But in fact people use language in all sorts of different ways, and there is always scope for misunderstanding.
You might be divided by class and political commitment: one person’s ‘scab’ (‘strike-breaker’) is another’s ‘hardworking employee’.