‘distortions’—or ‘shifts’, to use the more usual word—in Bible translations can matter hugely when they encapsulate differences in doctrine. The Baptist William Carey was a prolific translator of the Bible but he incurred the hostility of the Anglican British and Foreign Bible Society because, in line with his belief in full body baptism, he used the word ‘immerse’ instead of ‘baptise’.


When Tyndale’s translation began to be published  Thomas More attacked it on behalf of the authorities. What’s interesting is that More focused not so much on mistakes in Tyndale’s translation, as on his choice of different words from those that the Church community had got in the habit of using for its own beliefs and practices. Tyndale wrote ‘favour’, not ‘grace’; ‘love’, not ‘charity’; ‘congregation’, not ‘church’; ‘senior’, not ‘priest’; ‘acknowledge’, not ‘confess’. When believers looked into Tyndale’s Bible they would not find a blueprint for the established institutions of the Church, but rather something that pointed towards Protestant devotional practices.


Towards the end of the 16th century a group of Roman Catholic theologians set about producing a translation that would embody the beliefs and habits of the Catholic community and would therefore differ markedly from Tyndale’s and other Protestant and Anglican Bibles. In this translation, known as the Rheims–Douai Bible, there was not ‘daily bread’ but ‘supersubstantial bread’, not a ‘Holy Ghost’ but rather a ‘Paraclete’. These choices are the opposite of those recommended by [[Eugene Nida]].//find out who this is They make the Bible about as hard to understand for the everyday English reader as any translation could be while still being a translation. They embody the conviction that a priesthood is necessary to preserve and expound the meanings of these unusual, sacred words. [[religion keeping people with wool over their eyes]]
