And not sentences either, since they have form too. I discovered this to my cost in one of my own early ventures in translation. When I was a graduate student, I was commissioned to revise a translation of Alessandro Manzoni’s great 19th-century novel I promessi sposi (The Betrothed) that had been done by Archibald Colquhoun back in 1951. Manzoni is a master of the long, winding sentence, and I wanted to try to reproduce this movement for English readers. I started out by making the structure of the English sentences match the Italian as closely as possible, semi-colon for semi-colon, full stop for full stop. Then I sat back to read what I had created. It was horrible!—the feeling was quite different. Where the Italian cascaded, the English congealed. I realized that I could give a better impression of the flow of Manzoni’s writing by handling the syntax slightly differently. The movement of prose is not only a matter of sentence structure, just as the feel of poetry involves more than metre and rhyme.


Ch 4. An interpretation
The use of speech in political negotiations is typically more focused on the transmission of meaning. This is how ‘interpreting’, in the sense of ‘oral translation’ connects to ‘interpretation’, in the sense of opening out the meaning of a written text. If the sort of speech that interpreters interpret is devoted to conveying meaning then a form of translation—interpreting—that gets the meaning clear will be appropriate. But in a literary text lots of things are going on other than the communication of meaning. With this sort of language use, translation and interpretation push in different directions. Translation is a mode of writing that tries to continue as much as possible of the source text’s performance into another language. Interpretation focuses on opening out the meaning of the source text. An interpretation of a literary text is not likely to need much more interpretation in its turn. But a literary translation might well give rise to all sorts of interpretations.